### Date 1.0
This exercise brings many new challenges for me. From the language to the development environment. But my main concern is adapting to a statically typed mindset.

Although static typing is now available in Python I have not yet experienced it. The spare contact I've had with this methodology was in toy projects in the Unity game engine.

#### 1.1
I sometimes reflect how I make things harder and more painful for myself by using Arch, but overall I like how it makes me learn about what I'm doing instead of blindly copy pasting commands.

After a bit of work I managed to get [IntelliJ Idea](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/) working on my environment.

Using an IDE with so many features is also going to be part of the new experiences... I'm mostly used to coding in VIM or at most a barebones Sublime Text.

#### 1.2
After a few hours skimming through Kotlin introductions my feeling is that 90% of the content is targeted at developers moving from Java to Kotlin. Which makes sense... 

But I feel Kotlin/JetBrains would benefit from having more resources made towards developers who are arriving at Kotlin having other experiences (or none at all).

One good resource I found for Python developers was [this blog post](https://khan.github.io/kotlin-for-python-developers/#constants) by the fine people of Khan Academy.

#### 1.3
I have to admit the thought "Why do you do this in such a complicated way" crossed my minds many times... Python is so elegant and readable in comparison :P

But Kotlin seems to also take a lot from Python and apply it to Java, which makes it wayyyyy more appealing to work with.

#### 1.4
Experimenting with very simple "Hello World" scripts.

Even tho I don't like the feeling of depending in a 'bloated' IDE, having it validate my code as I go is a very nice experience. Especially since compiling and running the code takes an eternity when compared to Python.

Static typing (and it's added complexity) are now making more sense to me. I think I get how this is beneficial in larger projects with multiple developers. I see how it could have saved me a world of pain in some projects.
