### Date 2.0
Ok, I think I've watched enough of other people code yesterday, time to get my hands dirty and try it for myself. What could go wrong... I just need an idea.

#### 2.1
Had a few ideas for mini projects:
* Multiplayer card game
* Terminal based multiplayer "detective" game
* A simple neural network autoencoder implementation
* A fraud detector using a Python based autoencoder (I really want to play around with these sometime) and a Kotlin API "frontend"
* A Tamagotchi virtual pet of some sort...

In the end I ignored all of these and decided to keep it simple (although making a terminal based multiplayer game is something I definitely want to try out sometime!).

**I'm making a To-do app with a browser based front-end.**

#### 2.2
I want to avoid using too many frameworks since my goal is to learn Kotlin, not to present a "Make a To-Do app in 5 lines of code" keynote.

This is what I'm thinking for a basic structure:

```
. APP
|
|__ Task (class object)
|   |__ creationDate : Date (auto-generated)
|   |__ dueDate : Date
|   |__ title : String
|   |__ description : String
|   |__ status : String (todo | complete | late)
|   * method: complete() -> changes the status to complete
|   * method: delete() -> deletes the task
|__ Main (simple web server? probably use a minimalist web framework)
    |__ / -> taskListView : shows all tasks ordered by dueDate
    |__ /addTask -> addTask : form 
    |__ /deleteTask -> api endpoint?
    |__ /completeTask -> api endpoint?
``` 

Seems manageable for a first feel for the language.

I'll probably use SQLite3 or PostgreSQL to store the data. 
I need to search for a small/simple web framework since handling this is out of my scope right now.

#### 2.3
[Javalin](http://javalin.io) looks like a good option for the webframework. 
For data persistence I'm considering initially just storing everything in memory (a list/array object of some sort) and then implementing a database in a later step. Will be a good exercise on working with collections in Kotlin.

#### 2.4
Started a project using Gradle. 
Honestly, right now I have no idea what this thing does but apparently it helps managing my build and dependencies... automatic `requirements.txt` with `PIP` and `virtualenv` integrated? This is the best analogy I could think for it so far... I'm using it because Javalin recommended :P

#### 2.5
First thing I worked on was the `Task` class. I remember reading about `data classes` so I'll be using those for the convenience methods it generates.

Most Kotlin code examples I saw frequently import dependencies using '*', which I admit is a pet peeve of mine. I feel it makes code less explicit. I'll try doing explicit imports for now. If it gets too out of hand at least I'll learn why * is preferred. 

(**me from the future:** I caught IntelliJ automatically changing my imports to `java.util.*` when there were more than one dependencies on `java.util` for example.. maybe the IDE is one of the responsible parties for making these imports like this).

#### 2.6
Pause to read up on Javalin.

#### 2.7
Ok. Found a [good tutorial](https://javalin.io/tutorials/simple-kotlin-example) on the Javalin website that is just what I need.

Of course I don't want to simply copy/paste code, so I'll try my best to absorb it all and implement on my own. But overall the implementation of the CRUD and API seems straightforward.

And it looks like I made the right decision on using a `data class` for the `Task` class.

#### 2.8
My [initial architecture](#22) was a bit too simplistic. I need to implement a DAO (data access object) as an intermediary between my database and my views/API.

This is what I'm thinking right now:
```
. taskDAO (class object)
|__ getTasks : returns all tasks in the database
|__ addTask : adds a new task
|__ deleteTask : deletes a given task using taskID as a reference (need to add taskID to my class)
|__ completeTask : marks task as complete
```

#### 2.9
The smallest things can take some time to get used to... Like writing strings with "" and never ''

And I just (painfully) learned that Java does not accept named arguments in functions OR multiple returns from functions (well, not encapsulated at least) `whytho.png`

#### 2.A
Wasted a bit of time trying to figure out if I needed to import my classes or not. Main script seems to work without any explicit imports (I was expecting something like `import kotlin.TaskClass`)

Also decided to use a `mutableList` for now as a datastore just to make things a bit more familiar for my Pythonic brain.

#### 2.B
I've always had a very iterative process for developing in Python. I need to figure out a way to make this more iterative... right now I'm using a mock `main.kt` to run experiments. This is also making me want to learn TDD, but that will have to be on another project.

At the moment I have a working `Task` class and a working `DAO` class with which I can add and remove elements from my datastore (a simple mutable list for now).

#### 2.C
Doing some research on error handling in Kotlin.

#### 2.D
A small snag. Currently I'm using the index of the element in the data store as a proxy for its ID. But I'll have problems when I start deleting elements since their index will not match with their IDs anymore. I could take a few paths, here are the two main ones I'm considering at the moment:
* Permanently store all tasks and use an active/deleted flag. Will take more data space but can be helpful to have that data persistent.
* When adding a new Task, query the data store for the last ID used. This will always be the last element in the list so this query will not cost too much in terms of processing. But it is an 'unnecessary' hit on the DB.

I decided to go with the first path. This will require a new class attribute for my tasks and some change in the addTask method of the DAO.

Also reverted to a hashMap for the data store to make look ups more efficient.
